PLATFORM PACKAGES
Debian 13: standard status. Linux Mint 22.x: still experimental.
Check the status of each package in PLATTFORM.txt.
Preliminary step: sh install_deb.sh --check DATEI.deb
Debian packages are for Debian 13 only; Mint packages are for Mint 22.x with Ubuntu Noble base only.
Initial setup and additional mode on Mint are not available.
Further restrictions: docs/PLATTFORMEN.md in the source archive.

HOME SERVER MANAGER – INSTALLATION AND ADD-ONS

Target system: Debian 13 with systemd. Package architecture: all; individual applications and optional hardware require matching architecture and drivers.

1. Extract the complete ZIP or download DEB and install_deb.sh together.
2. Verify individual DEBs: sha256sum -c Heimserver_Manager_*.deb.sha256
   Verify all separately downloaded assets: sha256sum -c SHA256SUMS
3. Run as a normal user: sh ./install_deb.sh

Mode 1: Install or update the manager.
Mode 2: Complete Debian 13 setup after an offline installation, then install the manager.
Mode 3: Add-ons only, without manager installation.

Optional: administration tools, firmware packages, CPU microcode, NetworkManager,
system maintenance as well as SSH and XRDP/XFCE. Each selection is explained and confirmed.
These programs are NOT included in the DEB; APT downloads them if needed.
The package is not a complete offline installer.

Updates may restart the manager service. Complete running jobs beforehand
and back up data. Existing manual installations will not be accepted by the DEB without verification: for this, a separate migration must first take place.
A fresh installation starts with ADMIN/ADMIN according to package configuration;
immediately change access under Settings and do not expose it publicly.
The installer displays the HTTPS port and access via computer name as well as server IP. HTTP is only reachable internally on 127.0.0.1. Import private root certificate on clients
and verify the displayed fingerprint. Set up name resolution in router
or hosts; additional IP access does not require a DNS name.
Migrate existing HTTP agents to HTTPS, import new profile and set up certificate trust. If HTTPS setup fails via server terminal check Apache/ports and repeat sudo dpkg --configure server-manager. No external HTTP fallback access. No automatic reboot.

The source archive contains an explicit file selection without server state or
Git history. SHA256SUMS protects against corrupted/deviating downloads,
but is not a cryptographic publisher signature.
